ANN MENDENHALL: Hey, Joshua
Joshua Johnson: Hello.
ANN MENDENHALL: My name is Anne Mendenhall my pa, welcome. So take it. This is your first time with bright heart.
Joshua Johnson: Yes, ma'am.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, great. I'm out of curiosity, where do you live,
Joshua Johnson: In Greeley Hill. It's up by your city.
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, OK. Cool.
Joshua Johnson: Yeah yeah
ANN MENDENHALL: I'm not. I used to live in Nevada city, which is, you know, a little further north into Sierra foothills, but
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, that's beautiful country down there.
Joshua Johnson: Oh, yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well you we have
ANN MENDENHALL: less than an hour or so may not take us that long, but
ANN MENDENHALL: Let me kind of get things set
ANN MENDENHALL: Number of questions we have to go
Through
ANN MENDENHALL: where you're at and what you need for treatment and all
ANN MENDENHALL: Um, hang on one second.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so
ANN MENDENHALL: I'm going to take you through sort of a number of questions here. Like I mentioned,
ANN MENDENHALL: So when can you tell me a little bit about your
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, drug abuse is it strictly opiates and if it is, is it Pills, Heroin Do you smoke. Do you snore. Do you use IV or
ANN MENDENHALL: I'll ask you some more specific questions but
Joshua Johnson: Um, it's heroin and meth mainly
Joshua Johnson: Either use
ANN MENDENHALL: It use it for both
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, okay. All right, and so
ANN MENDENHALL: So in your current use right now. First of all, when, when was your, your last use of both of them.
Joshua Johnson: The 17th of December.
Joshua Johnson: December. Yeah.
Wasn't 1217 2019
ANN MENDENHALL: And I noticed in your pre screen that you had a couple of oldies and I was wondering when they were. And you know how long you're in the hospital and all that.
Joshua Johnson: Um,
Joshua Johnson: They were a while back.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, when we just say the most recent one was
Joshua Johnson: Two years ago, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And so, you haven't had to go to the ER since then.
Joshua Johnson: I've been to the ER quite a bit, but not for God.
ANN MENDENHALL: OK for any substance related things are there for other
Joshua Johnson: Yeah for Suboxone
ANN MENDENHALL: For Suboxone to get some okay
ANN MENDENHALL: So I'm currently. Whoops.
ANN MENDENHALL: So when did you start the Suboxone
Joshua Johnson: About two and a half weeks ago.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And have you, do you have a primary care that was prescribing it or just strictly from the ER.
ANN MENDENHALL: Er, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, this will be a lot better. Um, you know i mean you know what a drag it is to go to the ER and have to wait forever or you're feeling terrible so
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, how much have you been taking. How much have they been giving you
Joshua Johnson: Two tablets.
ANN MENDENHALL: Of the buprenorphine Suboxone
Joshua Johnson: Right.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And is it the eight milligram to milligram
Joshua Johnson: Yeah, yeah. That's what I figured.
ANN MENDENHALL: How have you been feeling on that.
Joshua Johnson: I'm okay. I'm still having a lot of bad dreams at night, like the drug dreams.
Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well, you know, they, they may take a little while, you know, the further because, you know, two and a half way I'm your last use was December.
ANN MENDENHALL: But if you've only been on the Suboxone for two and a half weeks. So what did you do between December 17 and when you started the Suboxone you're on anything methadone or anything.
Joshua Johnson: No, I was completely clean
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so you were just kind of toughing it out.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah. Did you go cold turkey when you when you quit.
ANN MENDENHALL: I did. Wow. It's not easy.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay so Suboxone certainly should be helping from there. But, you know, one of the things that I work in,
ANN MENDENHALL: A drug and alcohol rehab facilities. I actually work in in three of them. It just north of San Francisco and you know I I talked to my patients there and
ANN MENDENHALL: Whether it's alcohol, whether it's opiates math.
ANN MENDENHALL: Coke, you know, whatever. Sleep is it really takes a while to, sort of, you know, regulate because, you know, especially when you've been on, you know, amphetamines of some sort, you know it's it's really in a kind of jacked up to where it's going to take a little file.
ANN MENDENHALL: But I can make some recommendations to about that we can talk about that later to
ANN MENDENHALL: Help you know easy transition get into kind of good sleep habits that may help you know it. Do you have a primary care provider.
Joshua Johnson: I don't. Okay.
All right.
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, and so your, your nightmares have been drug related, have they did you have them at all when you were using or is just started since you've stopped.
Joshua Johnson: It started since I stopped.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. All right. And are you woken up every night.
Joshua Johnson: Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Multiple times.
Joshua Johnson: Um, at least a couple times a night.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, yeah. Well, we will, we can talk about that, about, you know, possibly
ANN MENDENHALL: What might be helping their what could help.
ANN MENDENHALL: So when what symptoms did you have when you withdrawing just the standard
Joshua Johnson: Um, yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: What we're most significant for you.
Joshua Johnson: The rest of slave not sleeping and nausea. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well can you were coming off two things. And so that that makes it even harder for sure.
ANN MENDENHALL: And but you've had no history of suicide attempts.
ANN MENDENHALL: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And there's kind of a risk assessment that
ANN MENDENHALL: Um,
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you have any family history of suicide or suicide attempts.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And have you ever had in this what they call suicidal ideation meaning like plans or thoughts of killing yourself.
Joshua Johnson: Okay.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well, that's good.
ANN MENDENHALL: One other thing, although you I don't see you as a risk factor, but do you have firearms or access to them.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Good. Well, I'm
ANN MENDENHALL: Glad that doesn't sound like that's an issue for you and you kind of caught this in time.
ANN MENDENHALL: Now one of the question. We do ask though, excuse me drink of water here.
ANN MENDENHALL: Is
ANN MENDENHALL: What kind of consequences. Have you experienced in this could be legal, like, you know, arrest you eyes, anything like that. Or it could be work related or relationship.
Joshua Johnson: I've lost everything my family. I went to jail.
Joshua Johnson: They always like freedom.
Yeah, that's pretty tough.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well,
ANN MENDENHALL: Hopefully, the longer you stay sober and maybe you can kind of, you know, prove to your family that you really committed to your recovery. Maybe you can start building some of those bridges. It takes a while because you know
Joshua Johnson: I actually already have the let me come back home. So
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, that's wonderful.
Joshua Johnson: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Good. Well, it sounds like you have a loving supportive family and they're able to to see that you're really trying
Joshua Johnson: Yeah, my parents actually run out recovery home.
ANN MENDENHALL: They did what
Joshua Johnson: They actually run a recovery home.
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, okay. So like a sober living home.
Joshua Johnson: Six months. Living Program.
ANN MENDENHALL: So they really understand
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, yeah, I'm really glad to hear that because I worry about people who don't have anybody who's a good strong support, particularly family and I do run into that a lot so
ANN MENDENHALL: That puts you like, you know, light years ahead in terms of, you know, being able to sustain your recovery and not relapse. So I'm good.
ANN MENDENHALL: I'm going to just jot that down.
ANN MENDENHALL: You're living at home.
ANN MENDENHALL: Any other substance use, like benzo
ANN MENDENHALL: Weed alcohol.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And what's the longest amount of time you've been sober.
Joshua Johnson: A year. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how long ago was that was that.
Joshua Johnson: Five years ago, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And have you ever been in any detox war residential treatment facilities.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about any na or anything like that. Yeah, okay.
Joshua Johnson: Good. I go weekly
ANN MENDENHALL: Good. Do you have a sponsor.
Joshua Johnson: Not yet. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: My son is
ANN MENDENHALL: Sober for now seven years from alcohol. He's 30 just turned 34
ANN MENDENHALL: And I will say that I think the single most important thing that got him really going and is kept him sober. Is he had a really
ANN MENDENHALL: Has still the same sponsor. So I really encourage that. When you find, you know, and I think, you know, some people go, oh my god, I gotta find just the right person or, you know, this isn't going to work.
ANN MENDENHALL: And don't get too hung up on that because you can always switch you know you can ask somebody, would you be my temporary sponsor if you kind of
ANN MENDENHALL: Think they might work, but you're not sure. And then that kind of gives you an out if you decide, oh, this, this is not a good match. You can thank them and move on. So,
Joshua Johnson: Again,
Just a thought.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And do you have any other site diagnoses. You know, like
Joshua Johnson: I pulling
Joshua Johnson: Things ID and depression.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Nothing else so
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, how about past medical history, do you have any current
ANN MENDENHALL: Anything like asthma or
ANN MENDENHALL: Anything else
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay, just jot that down.
ANN MENDENHALL: So your family history so
ANN MENDENHALL: This is kind of about. Whoops, sorry.
ANN MENDENHALL: done the wrong thing.
ANN MENDENHALL: Howard any surgery.
Joshua Johnson: I'm knee surgery.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, what kind of knee surgery.
Joshua Johnson: A microscopic and then invasion.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. Well, what were the surgery. Was it a meniscus or
Joshua Johnson: It was meniscus. And then they went in and cut a piece out of my femur.
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, wow.
Joshua Johnson: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: What was that for
Joshua Johnson: Because my my leg was messed up.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: That must have been a tough one to heal from
Joshua Johnson: took a long time.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, any other surgeries. That's it.
Joshua Johnson: That's it.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And family history.
ANN MENDENHALL: Are both your parents living
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Let's see your mom's alive. Does she have any health concerns or a substance use issues.
Joshua Johnson: Anxiety and then
Joshua Johnson: They both were attics, they've been clean for since 2001
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. Wow, that's great.
Joshua Johnson: My dad was
Joshua Johnson: My dad, my mom.
ANN MENDENHALL: And you said they've been sober for how long.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And I think the fact that they run a sober living house is is really wonderful and I find it. The recovery treatment centers where I work, most all of the people that work there are in recovery themselves and the other medical provider and myself or maybe only that that
ANN MENDENHALL: I really watch them talk to some of the residents. And I think when you've got that experience like your parents have you can really understand on a deeper level what people are going through. I mean, it really relate. And so, you know, that's, I think that's super important.
ANN MENDENHALL: Is I think a lot of people come in, you know, when they're starting their recovery or they're going into treatment and they feel a lot of guilt and shame and
ANN MENDENHALL: And actually, I look at it the other way. It's like, yes. All right. You really took a big step to do this and the past is the past. And, you know, let's just go from here. So I'm glad you're here.
ANN MENDENHALL: What I'm trying to say.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so
ANN MENDENHALL: Let's see. Are you an everyday cigarette smoker.
Joshua Johnson: I am
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and how much would you say that is
Joshua Johnson: A half pack.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And I think they probably asked you these questions, but I'm hosting in the morning. Do you have your first cigarette.
Joshua Johnson: 30 minutes. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how about alcohol. Do you drink it all.
Know,
ANN MENDENHALL: This IV drug use, say,
ANN MENDENHALL: In the past,
ANN MENDENHALL: And how about a do you eat healthy foods. Would you say and get regular exercise or not so much.
Joshua Johnson: Um, I tried to
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: See, are you currently employed.
Joshua Johnson: No, I'm not.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: So you're living with your parents right now. Right.
Joshua Johnson: Yes, ma'am.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, anybody else. And the whole
Joshua Johnson: My nephew, my brother and sister in law.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, great.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, this, this part is kind of
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, head to toe. How you doing right now. It's kind of like any symptoms you might be having now like currently. Are you having any fever, night sweats chills fatigue.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and how about any vision problems change in vision blurry vision double vision.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how about any hearing problems difficulty hearing, hearing loss.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: nasal congestion sneezing snoring.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about any respiratory things like cop wheezing.
ANN MENDENHALL: Sounds like in pretty good shape. Good.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about any cardio things like chest pain, palpitations, difficulty breathing.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And see otherwise muscular skeletal muscle pain back pain tender joints.
Joshua Johnson: Not anymore. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Good. So you really recovered from that surgery. It sounds like
Joshua Johnson: Oh, yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, um, headaches, vertigo. I'm fainting.
Joshua Johnson: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And psychiatric you said depression and anxiety, which is pretty common.
ANN MENDENHALL: In sleep disturbance will say that are any hallucinations.
ANN MENDENHALL: No. And you said no suicidal ideation.
Joshua Johnson: Right, okay.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how about any medications are you taking any medications. Now,
Joshua Johnson: I'm the Suboxone I'm gonna
Joshua Johnson: ibuprofen.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And do you take ibuprofen every day or just when you need it.
Joshua Johnson: I'm just when I need it.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, that's fine.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so let's
ANN MENDENHALL: Is. And so, when was the last time you took the buprenorphine the locks on the Suboxone
Joshua Johnson: A about half an hour ago.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. Okay, so
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: So you didn't really you just got that from the ER did
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you have any left
ANN MENDENHALL: Under. Okay. How much do you have left.
Joshua Johnson: I believe I have eight tablets left. Okay.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: So what I will. What I'm going to do is send out a prescription. I'm sure you probably already told the office when they did all the intake questions what pharmacy, but I always like to double check so I make sure I send it to the one you want to
Joshua Johnson: The Walgreens on hatch road and search, California.
ANN MENDENHALL: What's the name of the town.
ANN MENDENHALL: Series series is that how do you spell that
Joshua Johnson: Si, si, si r e s
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: On hatch road. Okay. Do you happen to know the zip
Joshua Johnson: I don't
ANN MENDENHALL: That's okay, I can find it. Okay. Okay. So let me go ahead and put that in there.
ANN MENDENHALL: It's the eight milligram two milligram
ANN MENDENHALL: Tablets not films. Right.
Right.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And so what what we do here is I'm sure they talk to you about that. The group's
Joshua Johnson: I'm not really
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, that's how you get your, your refills is I have a group on Wednesday nights at six o'clock.
Joshua Johnson: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Will you be able to make that
Joshua Johnson: Yeah.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And it's a it's a really, it's a good group of people and you're kind of entering a group where people have been there for a while, but they're very welcoming of new people, so
ANN MENDENHALL: I think you'll like it. People have, you know, share their experiences and we have people who've been sober, you know, and in the program for eight months. And, you know, up to people who, you know, just got sober and people who have had similar experiences who've had
ANN MENDENHALL: You know arrests in jail.
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, a variety of different things have happened to them and but they're all really good great people. So, but that's so I'm just send a prescription
ANN MENDENHALL: For a week, I'll do it for eight days actually because I you know you got some already, but I just want to make sure you don't run out. So you'll need to when you done here, hang up and call
ANN MENDENHALL: The virtual clinic again and asked to be put in the next Wednesday night group at six o'clock and
ANN MENDENHALL: I'll give you your next refilled then. And so what I do is for people. You know when you're new, for the first couple of months. It's just kind of week by week and then I stretch it out and then give you two weeks and then
ANN MENDENHALL: You know a lot of my people have been there for like five or six months or longer. I give a month prescription. So this is a short one, but it's not going to always be like that. Just to kind of let you know.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so let me put this in here.
And
ANN MENDENHALL: So did you, did they just give it to you at the ER or did you have to go to a pharmacy to pick it up.
Joshua Johnson: I had to go to a pharmacy to pick it up.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, but let me just look at something really quick. So I can sort of figure out when they're
ANN MENDENHALL: Went
ANN MENDENHALL: To the first one.
Let's see.
ANN MENDENHALL: We do this thing called cures, which shows everything that's been prescribed for an individual in the state of California anyway.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so your last name is Johnson.
ANN MENDENHALL: And your date of birth is October 11 293
Joshua Johnson: Yes, ma'am.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, it looks like
ANN MENDENHALL: You're just about do. What's the date today. Yeah that should be fine. They should be able to fill it today or tomorrow because your last Phil was on January 31
Joshua Johnson: Okay.
Joshua Johnson: Good.
ANN MENDENHALL: Because sometimes, especially for a first
ANN MENDENHALL: Get into that for when I send a prescription for somebody for the first time. If we send it into soon, then you know they the pharmacists bought you know kind of
ANN MENDENHALL: Questions it so but you should read
Joshua Johnson: Okay, let's say,
ANN MENDENHALL: You had told them the Walmart Walgreens.
Joshua Johnson: Right, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: That's why I'm glad I asked.
Joshua Johnson: You
ANN MENDENHALL: The dragon. You went to Walgreens, and it's not there.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and that's in series. I'm sure there's probably just one Walgreens and series.
Joshua Johnson: I believe so.
ANN MENDENHALL: I'm guessing, but
ANN MENDENHALL: We don't know the zip
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh,
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, no pharmacies were found.
ANN MENDENHALL: It si r e s right.
Joshua Johnson: Yeah, I believe so. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Let me look online and see if I can find that zip code and maybe that'll help us.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: East hatch road.
Joshua Johnson: That's it. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: They listed as a test. Oh, man. It's not really a mic so but it's close.
Let's see.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, well, oh yeah, they do. They listen this Modesto
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: That I got this. Yep. So that'll bring it up 95351 okay
ANN MENDENHALL: East hatch road. Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you want that to be your, your primary one
Joshua Johnson: Yeah.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And then that way it will always pop up when I go to refill it. We keep it as Walmart Walmart, it's going to always pop up so
Joshua Johnson: Regret we do this.
OK.
Change that
ANN MENDENHALL: And going to give you one tab twice a day for eight days 16 tabs.
ANN MENDENHALL: You can fill that
ANN MENDENHALL: either today or tomorrow.
Joshua Johnson: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And
Get this ready
ANN MENDENHALL: Now,
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you have any current drug allergies.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Now vitals, obviously we're not in the same room. So this is kind of minimal thing but a couple of things. How tall are you,
Joshua Johnson: Six one
ANN MENDENHALL: And how much do you weigh
ANN MENDENHALL: 240 40
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: So I'm I want to get your heart rate to. So, do you know how to find your pulse in your neck.
Joshua Johnson: Carotid artery. Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, so I want you to go ahead and find it let me know when you have it.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yet I go, okay. And so what I'm going to do, I'm going to have an accountant, but the way I'm going to do this is all count 321 and I'll say start. And when I say that you start counting the number of beats you feel. And when I say stop then you give me that number.
ANN MENDENHALL: And then I
Okay, so
ANN MENDENHALL: 321 start
Stop.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: That's about all we can do there. And then
ANN MENDENHALL: For the exam that is sort of also not a whole lot that we can do.
ANN MENDENHALL: Alright, so, um,
ANN MENDENHALL: Let me kind of go through this and see if there's anything else we need to get
ANN MENDENHALL: No medical history. He had the two
ANN MENDENHALL: knee surgeries.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well, the other thing I was going to ask you about
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you have any siblings.
Joshua Johnson: Older brother.
Okay.
We put
ANN MENDENHALL: And
Joshua Johnson: Yes.
ANN MENDENHALL: Your older brothers alive.
Joshua Johnson: Yes, yes.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And does he have any medical problems that you're aware
Joshua Johnson: No.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: So, you know, in terms of the
ANN MENDENHALL: The nightmares. You know I what I was going to talk to you about. I think being on the Suboxone a little bit longer, you know, hopefully will will really help that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Also, the things that I really recommend because I've been in primary care as well for number of years is
ANN MENDENHALL: Establish a kind of a routine at night. So try and go to bed and get up at the same time each night. Each morning that kind of get your body used to that kind of timing.
ANN MENDENHALL: As the evening, you know, as you get closer to kind of bedtime, try and have the lights a little bit lower.
ANN MENDENHALL: It's really highly recommended to not do any screen time for at least an hour before you go to bed. I mean even longer is better.
ANN MENDENHALL: The blue light from the TV and from your computer screen or even from your phone kind of disrupts your, your sleep rhythms your circadian rhythm and so it can make it harder plus
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, with everything going on in this country right now. It's like, and I i watch too much. So I end up going to bed going oh my god
ANN MENDENHALL: So, you know, trying to maybe read a little before you go to bed, you know, get used to doing something like, you know, drinking some you know cameo or sleepy time
ANN MENDENHALL: Tea or something like that.
ANN MENDENHALL: And reading often is really helpful. But I guess I should also ask, Do you have trouble getting to sleep, or is it just staying asleep.
Joshua Johnson: I don't have trouble getting to sleep.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, it's more staying asleep. Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, that's we should see how they
ANN MENDENHALL: Help
ANN MENDENHALL: The listener thing.
ANN MENDENHALL: And this one.
ANN MENDENHALL: Awesome side effects. I mean, you know, for nightmares, but it can cause some side effects itself. And so I usually like to wait a little bit longer into
ANN MENDENHALL: You know recovery. Before we start doing that. But if the nightmares are becoming
ANN MENDENHALL: You know so difficult that you're not getting enough sleep, you know, then maybe we can talk again and see about prescribing something because it
ANN MENDENHALL: Sounds like you don't have a primary care and you know I
ANN MENDENHALL: We don't take over the primary care. You know, like for somebody who has, like, you know, high blood pressure or something like that, you know, they have to go to their doctor but you know I think what you have is probably somewhat tied to your recovery. So
ANN MENDENHALL: How does that sound.
Joshua Johnson: That sounds great.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, yeah. So try those other things and just sort of, you know, and the other things that I really recommend is deep breathing. If you're feeling anxiety and generally when you know we're going
ANN MENDENHALL: To recovery both depression and anxiety are huge. And I think, anxiety, you know in in our culture at this time is rampant. I mean, we all are anxious to varying degrees. And so, you know, to me it's finding the way that you know it's going to work for you and
Joshua Johnson: You know, I've noticed
ANN MENDENHALL: Myself recently I've been kind of more anxious and then I kind of see what's going on. I mean, there's a lot of reasons. You could be anxious, but I go, Yeah, I have a new puppy and I've
ANN MENDENHALL: Been getting out and you know going for longer walks and I'm not getting quite enough exercise so I you know bump that up for a few days, took her to the beach where we could walk and she could just digging. See, and felt a little better.
ANN MENDENHALL: Meditation, which doesn't have to be something exotic. All it is, is, you know, sitting up in your bed in the morning and just focusing on your breath. So just sort of
ANN MENDENHALL: Feeling your breath come in your nose and go out your nose each nostril go in and it doesn't have to be in water out the other don't have to count it even counted. If you want to be just as simple as possible just sort of
ANN MENDENHALL: Keeping your focus on that and you'll have a million thoughts racing in that normal. That doesn't mean that you're not doing it right. You are doing it right, but just bring your attention back to your breath, and I have meditated on and off for
ANN MENDENHALL: Decades and when I am meditating regularly. I just feel my whole life being a little calm or so it's just sort of
ANN MENDENHALL: Things like that are just really healthy ways that you can kind of deal with your own anxiety because there's really a lot of people come into our, our treatment centers and
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, they really want a pill, like you know Ambien for sleep or they want, you know, a benzo like Xanax or Valium for their, their
ANN MENDENHALL: Anxiety and I'm like really against those because it's like putting a bandaid over a black hole, it doesn't
ANN MENDENHALL: Do anything. And once it wears off and it you know the anxiety comes back once you quit taking something like Ambien, you know, then you can't sleep anymore. Even worse. So learning how to sort of self sooth, even in times that are difficult
ANN MENDENHALL: And stressful, even very important. So no matter where you are, you can just sit. If you're on a bus or
Joshua Johnson: Something just
ANN MENDENHALL: sit quietly and close your eyes and just, you know, use that time to just do some kind of deep breathing.
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, and nobody really knows what you're doing but you know I you see it more and more. I mean, I noticed that when I'm you know on a bus or a train or something like that. And it's, you know, just a good habit to get into. And I think it will really support your recovery, too.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay well i i think that we kind of covered everything from, from my point of view, do you have any questions for me.
Joshua Johnson: Um no I don't.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, well, do you like to be called Joshua or Josh
ANN MENDENHALL: Josh Josh Okay, Josh. It was really nice meeting you.
And
ANN MENDENHALL: Congratulations on, you know, jumping in there you know you you did it a tough way going cold turkey, but
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, I'm glad that you found bright heart and
ANN MENDENHALL: Make
ANN MENDENHALL: Sure that you call the virtual clinic backup and say that I asked that you'd be putting my Wednesday six o'clock group and and we'll see you next Wednesday night.
Joshua Johnson: Sounds great.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and your prescriptions already sent. So you can pick that up.
Joshua Johnson: All right. Thank you.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. You're very welcome. You take care
Okay, bye.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so yeah I had somebody show up. It's worth it. The no show
ANN MENDENHALL: So Josh pre band score, which was done in February 1 the risk was 13 and protective score was 24. And as you know, I think you heard us discuss he's had no suicide attempts, he has to overdose. But the last time he was in the ER for for overdose was like over excuse me over two years ago.
ANN MENDENHALL: heroin and meth both he's used IV. I don't know if I jotted that down I filled in some stuff.
ANN MENDENHALL: As opposed to yesterday when I just talked and filled in nothing. So hopefully that that went okay but it was more kind of a discussion yesterday with Robert skirmish semi Santiago. Santiago. Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, so I think that's it. And thank you again for your great job. Trent transcribing it just makes things so much easier for me and I really appreciate it.
ANN MENDENHALL: So, take care. Talk to you later. Bye.